<pre>
  CIP: 3
  Title: Vending Machine
  Author: Guillaume Bonnot
  Status: Draft
  Created: 2018-11-28
</pre>

==Abstract==
The new account type vending machine allows to automatically exchange a currency for another, at a rate fixed by the owner.

==Motivation==
The protocol already supports multi-currency transactions but another channel must be used to negociate and sign the exchange transaction, this proposal would handle the most frequent uses cases.

==Specification==

===Declaration===

A new declaration type is introduced :
* VendingMachine : 0x4

A new account type is introduced :
* VendingMachine : 0x5

The vending machine has following field :
* Owner : the address of the owner, who can withdraw the funds at anytime
* Currency In : the currency the machine will receive
* Currency Out : the currency the machine will send
* Rate : the conversion rate between what is received and what is sent

Example :

* Currency In : LTC
* Currency Out : BTC
* Rate : 10

For every LTC amount sent to the vending machine, you can receive amount/10 BTC from the vending machine.
This amount sent is rounded down.

===Transaction===

The user must create a transaction with the inputs and outputs of both himself and the vending machine.

Example :
* INPUT : user 100 LTC
* INPUT : machine 10 BTC

* OUTPUT : machine 100 LTC
* OUTPUT : user 10 BTC

===Verification===
when a transaction tries to spend from the vending machine,
it is valid only in 2 cases :
* the amount sent is exchanged against the amount received at the specified rate
* the owner signed the transaction

==Rationale==
The rate is used only to multiply, so we dont have division by 0.

==Backwards compatibility==
This proposal introduces a new account type and a new declaration type.
Backwards compatibility is ok.
Forwards compatibility is not possible, old versions are going to reject anything with the new account type.
